When you build your neural network,
one of the choices you get to make is what
activation function to
use in the hidden layers.
As well as at the output
units of your neural network.
So far, we've just been using
the sigmoid activation function, but
sometimes other choices
can work much better.
Let's take a look at some of the options.
In the forward propagation steps for
the neural network,
we had these two steps where we
use the sigmoid function here.
So that sigmoid is called
an activation function.
And here's the familiar sigmoid function,
a = 1/1 + e to -z.
So in the more general case,
we can have a different function g(z).
Which I'm going to right here where
g could be a nonlinear function
that may not be the sigmoid function.
So for example, the sigmoid
function goes between zero and one.
An activation function that almost
always works better than the sigmoid
function is the tangent function or
the hyperbolic tangent function.
So this is z, this is a,
this is a = tan h(z).
And this goes between +1 and -1.
The formula for the tan h function is e to
the z minus e to-z over their sum.
And it's actually mathematically a shifted
version of the sigmoid function.
So as a sigmoid function just
like that but shifted so
that it now crosses the zero
zero point on the scale.
So it goes between minus one and plus one.
And it turns out that for hidden units,
if you let the function
g(z) be equal to tan h(z).
This almost always works better than
the sigmoid function because with values
between plus one and minus one,
the mean of the activations that come out
of your hidden layer are closer
to having a zero mean.
And so just as sometimes when
you train a learning algorithm,
you might center the data and
have your data have zero mean using
a tan h instead of a sigmoid function.
Kind of has the effect of
centering your data so
that the mean of your data is close
to zero rather than maybe 0.5.
And this actually makes learning for
the next layer a little bit easier.
We'll say more about this in the second
course when we talk about optimization
algorithms as well.
But one takeaway is that
I pretty much never use
the sigmoid activation function anymore.
The tan h function is almost
always strictly superior.
The one exception is for the output
layer because if y is either zero or
one, then it makes sense for
y hat to be a number that you want
to output that's between zero and
one rather than between -1 and 1.
So the one exception where I would use
the sigmoid activation function is when
you're using binary classification.
In which case you might use the sigmoid
activation function for the upper layer.
So g(z2) here is equal to sigmoid of z2.
And so what you see in this
example is where you might have
a tan h activation function for the hidden
layer and sigmoid for the output layer.
So the activation functions can be
different for different layers.
And sometimes to denote that
the activation functions are different for
different layers,
we might use these square brackets
superscripts as well to indicate that
gf square bracket one may be different
than gf square bracket two, right.
Again, square bracket one
superscript refers to this layer and
superscript square bracket two
refers to the output layer.
Now, one of the downsides of
both the sigmoid function and
the tan h function is that if z is
either very large or very small,
then the gradient of the derivative of the
slope of this function becomes very small.
So if z is very large or z is very small,
the slope of the function either ends
up being close to zero and so
this can slow down gradient descent.
So one other choice that is very
popular in machine learning is
what's called the rectified linear unit.
So the value function looks like this and
the formula is a = max(0,z).
So the derivative is one so
long as z is positive and
derivative or
the slope is zero when z is negative.
If you're implementing this,
technically the derivative when z is
exactly zero is not well defined.
But when you implement
this in the computer,
the odds that you get exactly z
equals 000000000000 is very small.
So you don't need to worry about it.
In practice, you could pretend
a derivative when z is equal to zero,
you can pretend is either one or zero.
And you can work just fine.
So the fact is not differentiable.
The fact that, so here's some rules of
thumb for choosing activation functions.
If your output is zero one value,
if you're using binary classification,
then the sigmoid activation function is
very natural choice for the output layer.
And then for all other units value or
the rectified linear unit is increasingly
the default choice of activation function.
So if you're not sure what to use for
your hidden layer, I would just use
the value activation function, is what
you see most people using these days.
Although sometimes people also use
the tan h activation function.
One disadvantage of the value is that
the derivative is equal to zero when z
is negative.
In practice this works just fine.
But there is another version of
the value called the Leaky ReLU.
We'll give you the formula on the next
slide but instead of it being zero
when z is negative,
it just takes a slight slope like so.
So this is called Leaky ReLU.
This usually works better than
the value activation function.
Although, it's just not
used as much in practice.
Either one should be fine.
Although, if you had to pick one,
I usually just use the value.
And the advantage of both the value and
the Leaky ReLU is that for
a lot of the space of z,
the derivative of the activation function,
the slope of the activation function
is very different from zero.
And so in practice,
using the value activation function,
your neural network will often learn
much faster than when using the tan h or
the sigmoid activation function.
And the main reason is that there's
less of this effect of the slope of
the function going to zero,
which slows down learning.
And I know that for half of the range
of z, the slope for value is zero.
But in practice, enough of your hidden
units will have z greater than zero.
So learning can still be quite fast for
most training examples.
So let's just quickly recap the pros and
cons of different activation functions.
Here's the sigmoid activation function.
I would say never use this except for
the output layer if you're doing binomial
classification or
maybe almost never use this.
And the reason I almost never
use this is because the tan h is
pretty much strictly superior.
So the tan h activation function is this.
And then the default,
the most commonly used activation
function is the ReLU, which is this.
So if you're not sure what else to use,
use this one.
And maybe, feel free also to try
the Leaky ReLU where might be
0.01(z,z), right?
So a is the max of 0.1 times z and z.
So that gives you this
bend in the function.
And you might say,
why is that constant 0.01?
Well, you can also make that another
parameter of the learning algorithm.
And some people say that works even
better, but how they see people do that.
So, but if you feel like trying it in your
application, please feel free to do so.
And you can just see how it works and
how well it works, and
stick with it if it
gives you a good result.
So I hope that gives you a sense of some
of the choices of activation functions
you can use in your neural network.
One of the things we'll see in deep
learning is that you often have a lot of
different choices in how you
build your neural network.
Ranging from a number of hidden units
to the choices activation function,
to how you initialize the ways
which we'll see later.
A lot of choices like that.
And it turns out that it is sometimes
difficult to get good guidelines for
exactly what will work best for
your problem.
So throughout these courses,
I'll keep on giving you a sense of what I
see in the industry in terms of
what's more or less popular.
But for your application with your
applications, idiosyncrasies is actually
very difficult to know in advance
exactly what will work best.
So common piece of advice would be,
if you're not sure which one of these
activation functions work best,
try them all.
And evaluate on like a holdout validation
set or like a development set,
which we'll talk about later.
And see which one works better and
then go of that.
And I think that by testing
these different choices for
your application, you'd be better
at future proofing your neural
network architecture against
the idiosyncracies problems.
As well as evolutions of
the algorithms rather than,
if I were to tell you always use a value
activation and don't use anything else.
That just may or may not apply for
whatever problem you end up working on.
Either in the near future or
in the distant future.
All right, so, that was choice
of activation functions and
you see the most popular
activation functions.
There's one other question that
sometimes you can ask which is,
why do you even need to use
an activation function at all?
Why not just do away with that?
So, let's talk about that in the next
video where you see why neural
networks do need some sort of
non linear activation function.